Add fiddle example and docu for web components (#1795)
SAP/luigi: docs/web-component.md

<!-- meta
{
  "node": {
    "label": "Web Component",
    "category": {
      "label": "Luigi Core"
    },
    "metaData": {
      "categoryPosition": 2,
      "position": 12
    }
  }
}
meta -->

# Web Component

<!-- add-attribute:class:success -->
>**TIP:** You can find some examples how to write/include web components in our test application [Luigi Fiddle](https://fiddle.luigi-project.io).

### Overview

Luigi offers the possibility to open a micro frontend as a web component; if you want to have more information about web component, please have a look at the page: [Web Component](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components).

For no-complex micro frontend, it can be a good and fast alternative, since all the frontend will be loaded in a single javascript file.

### Navigation Configuration

If you want to declare a menu item to be open as Web Component, you need to specify this configuration in Luigi config:
```javascript
{ 
    pathSegment: 'wc', 
    ………    
    viewUrl: '/wc/luigiExampleWC.js',
    webcomponent: true,
    ………    
}

```

### Write a Web Component

> Luigi supports Web Component than are slightly different from standard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luigi supports Web Component that are slightly different from standard:
```

    viewUrl: '/wc/luigi_proxy_wc.js',
    webcomponent: true,
    ………    
}

```

```javascript
//This woudl be the file luigi_proxy_wc.js

const template = document.createElement('template');
template.innerHTML = `
  
  <your-web-component option1='xxx' option2='yyyyyy'/>
     
`;

import "./your_custom_wc.js";

export default class extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
     super();
     this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
     this.shadowRoot.appendChild(template.content.cloneNode(true));
     ..........
  }
}
```

```javascript
//This woudl be the file your_custom_wc.js

(function() {
  class F_Input extends HTMLElement {
    constructor() {
      super();
      this.shadow = this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
      .........
   }
  }
  
  customElements.define('your-web-component', F_Input);

})();
```

### Tip: Example of Luigi Web Component using other standard Web Component and how to communicate with them.

In Fiddle application we have a Luigi Web Component that is using other custom standard web components and Luigi Client object: [WC Luigi Client](https://fiddle.luigi-project.io/#/home/wc2)
In this section a very short description of all the files that are used.

> ####File luigiExampleWC.js: the Luigi Web Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### File luigiExampleWC.js: the Luigi Web Component
```

      event.stopPropagation();
    }, false);
    this.bShowBusy.addEventListener('click', (event) => {
      this.toggleBusy('busyIndicatorExample', true);
      event.stopPropagation();
    }, false);
  }

  showAlert(event){
    let alertType = event.detail;
    if (this.LuigiClient) {
      this.LuigiClient.uxManager().showAlert({
        text: 'Hello from uxManager in Web Component',
        type: alertType
      });
    }
    event.stopPropagation();
  }

  toggleBusy(id, show){
    EcEvent.fire(id, show);
    const showButtonStyle = show ? 'none' : 'block';
    const hideButtonStyle = show ? 'block' : 'none';

    this.bShowBusy.style.display = showButtonStyle;
    this.bHideBusy.style.display = hideButtonStyle;
    this.showBusy = show;
  }
}

import './f_selectbox.js';
```

In this file we have the following elements:
- HTML template of the components where we have basically 4 sections
- An injected <fundamental-list-box web component
- An injected <f_busy web component
- An injected <fundamental-input used 4 times
- We created an example of event handler (file wcEvent.js) that is going to be used for the web components communication.

> ###File f_selectbox.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### File f_selectbox.js
```

Author: I've already changed in the newest version

      [...this.attributes].forEach(attr => {
        if (attr.name.startsWith('option')) {
          items.push(attr.value);
        }
      });
      return items;
    }

  }

  customElements.define('fundamental-list-box', F_Selectbox);
})();
```

This Web component is called using this html syntax: 
```javascript
<fundamental-list-box id="alertBox" placeholder="Select Alert Type" default_option="" option1="info" option2="success" option3="warning" option4="error" /></div>
```
Web component will create a [Fundamental Combobox]:(https://sap.github.io/fundamental-styles/?path=/docs/patterns-combobox-input--cozy-and-compact).
Every time there is a change, it will send an event to main Luigi Web Component (luigiExampleWC.js) using this API:
```javascript
cEvent.fire(id, value);
```

luigiExampleWC.js will receive the event and show an alert (the alert type is contained in the event):
```javascript
EcEvent.register("alertBox",  this.showAlert.bind(this));

showAlert(event){
let alertType = event.detail;
if (this.LuigiClient) {
  this.LuigiClient.uxManager().showAlert({
    text: 'Hello from uxManager in Web Component',
    type: alertType
  });
}
event.stopPropagation();
}
```

> ###File f_busy.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### File f_busy.js
```

-   [Luigi Client for web component](#luigi-client-for-web-component) js object injected in that Web Component, to leverage some Luigi core features
-   [Tip: how to inject HTML Template code in web component](#tip-how-to-inject-html-template-code-in-web-component) - recommendation how to inject the html in a Web Component
-   [Tip: Loading a Web Component inside a Luigi WebComponent](#tip-loading-a-web-component-inside-a-luigi-webcomponent) - example how to include standard Web Components in your Luigi Web Component 
-   [Tip: Example of Luigi Web Component using other standard Web Component and how to communicate with them](#tip-example-of-luigi-web-component-using-other-standard-web-component-and-how-to-communicate-with-them)
    -   [File luigiExampleWC.js: the Luigi Web Compone](#file-luigiexamplewcjs-the-luigi-web-component) 
    -   [File f_selectbox.js](#file-f_selectboxjs)
    -   [File f_busy.js](#file-f_busyjs)
    -   [File f_input.js](#file-f_inputjs)
    -   [File wcEvent.js](#file-wceventjs)
        
            
## Navigation Configuration

> 

Reviewer: I think this documentation part is missing the info regarding `settings` that are needed to enable wc, otherwise it would not work. It's already added in this example, it's just not documented here:
```
settings: {      
     ...
     navigation: {
        validWebcomponentUrls:['.*?']
     },
     experimental: {
          webcomponents:true
     }
}
```

    this.$paragraph = this._shadowRoot.querySelector('p');
    this.$button = this._shadowRoot.querySelector('button');
    this.$button.addEventListener('click', () => {
      if (this.LuigiClient) {
        this.LuigiClient.uxManager().showAlert({
          text: 'Hello from uxManager in Web Component',
          type: 'info'
        });
      }
    });
  }

  set context(ctx) {
    this.$paragraph.innerHTML = ctx.title;
  }
}
```

As you could notice from previous example, you can use a LuigiClient instance inside your  web component class. 
It is really important to notice, that this LuigiClient instance is different from the one than you can find in [client library](https://docs.luigi-project.io/docs/luigi-client-setup).

Normal micro frontends are embedded inside iFrame: Luigi offers a library to allow the frontend to communicate with Luigi Core.
In Web Component the situation is quite different: they are not encapsulated into an iframe, they are just loaded inside a shadow element; 
when Luigi Core loads a Web Component, it injects a LuigiClient instance.

### Luigi Client for web component

In this javascript object, you can basically find two elements:

> - this.LuigiClient.uxManager(): you can use all methods described in [Luigi Core UX](https://docs.luigi-project.io/docs/luigi-core-api?section=ux)
> - this.LuigiClient.linkManager(): you can use all methods described in [Luigi Navigation](https://docs.luigi-project.io/docs/luigi-core-api?section=luiginavigation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `this.LuigiClient.uxManager()` : you can use all methods described in [Luigi Core UX](https://docs.luigi-project.io/docs/luigi-core-api?section=ux)
- `this.LuigiClient.linkManager()` : you can use all methods described in [Luigi Navigation](https://docs.luigi-project.io/docs/luigi-core-api?section=luiginavigation)
```

> For example, if you want to open an alert notificatoin, you can easily call:
> 
> 
> Here below, a very easy Hello World web component example:

Reviewer: a bit ambiguous
```suggestion
Below you have a a very easy Hello World web component example which shows an alert:
```

```javascript
export default class extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
    ........
    this.LuigiClient.uxManager().showAlert({
      text: 'Hello from uxManager in Web Component',
      type: 'info'
    });
    ........ 
  }
}
```

> If you want open a drawer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to open a drawer:
```

```javascript
export default class extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
    ........
     this.LuigiClient.linkManager().openAsDrawer('Your Drawer Url', {header:true, backdrop:true, size:'s'});
    ........ 
  }
}
```

## Tip: how to inject HTML Template code in web component 

> Sometime your Web Component has some HTML template that you would like to use, instead of creating dom elements one by one.
> We suggest putting your html template inside a variable at the beginning of the js file and append to the web component root in the constructor, here an example:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes your Web Component has some HTML template that you would like to use, instead of creating DOM elements one by one.
We suggest putting your HTML template inside a variable at the beginning of the js file and append to the web component root in the constructor. An example is given below:
```

```javascript
const template = document.createElement('template');
template.innerHTML = `
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="EN">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title></title>
    <link href="//unpkg.com/fundamental-styles@latest/dist/fundamental-styles.css" rel="stylesheet">
    <style>     </style>
    <script></script>
</head>
<body>
      ......
      <main class="fd-page">.....</main>
      ......
</body>
`;

export default class extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
     super();
     this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
     this.shadowRoot.appendChild(template.content.cloneNode(true));
     ..........
  }
}
```
              

## Tip: Loading a Web Component inside a Luigi WebComponent
In order to modularize/reuse some code, you would like to import other standard Web Component inside Luigi Web Component. 
There could also be the case that you have already micro front end running in a standard Web Component and you would like to reuse it: 
the easier way is to create a Luigi Proxy Web Component, here below and example:

```javascript

> //In Luigic Core Config you will have this new Item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//In Luigi Core Config you will have this new Item
```

{ 
    pathSegment: 'your-web-componet-through-proxy', 
    ………    
    viewUrl: '/wc/luigi_proxy_wc.js',
    webcomponent: true,
    ………    
}

```

```javascript

> //This woudl be the file luigi_proxy_wc.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//This would be the file luigi_proxy_wc.js
```

const template = document.createElement('template');
template.innerHTML = `
  
  <your-web-component option1='xxx' option2='yyyyyy'/>
     
`;

import "./your_custom_wc.js";

export default class extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
     super();
     this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
     this.shadowRoot.appendChild(template.content.cloneNode(true));
     ..........
  }
}
```

```javascript

> //This woudl be the file your_custom_wc.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//This would be the file your_custom_wc.js
```

(function() {
  class F_Input extends HTMLElement {
    constructor() {
      super();
      this.shadow = this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
      .........
   }
  }
  
  customElements.define('your-web-component', F_Input);

})();
```

## Tip: Example of Luigi Web Component using other standard Web Component and how to communicate with them.

> In Fiddle application we have a Luigi Web Component that is using other custom standard web components and Luigi Client object: [WC Luigi Client](https://fiddle.luigi-project.io/#/home/wc2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can have a look at our Luigi Fiddle example where we showcase a Luigi Web Component that is using other custom standard web components and Luigi Client object [here](https://fiddle.luigi-project.io/#/home/wc2)
```

> In this section a very short description of all the files that are used.
> 
> In the following diagrams, you can see how the different Web Components are injected:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section gives a short description of all the files that are used.

You can see how the different Web Components are injected through the diagrams below:

```

![Component Injection](assets/component_injections.png)

> The Components cannot use (read, write) other Components elements. For this reason, we created a new simple example event mechanism to allow communication between the different components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Components cannot use (read, write) other Components elements. For this reason, we created a new simple event mechanism example to allow communication between the different components:
```

    
    <style>
      .fd-page{
        padding: 20px;
      }
    </style>
    <script>
        function toggleElAttrs(id, toggleAttrs) {
            let ref = document.getElementById(id);
            if (ref && Array.isArray(toggleAttrs) && toggleAttrs.length){
                for(var i = 0; i < toggleAttrs.length; i++) {
                    var val = ref.getAttribute(toggleAttrs[i]);
                    if(val === 'true') {
                        setElAttr(id, toggleAttrs[i], 'false');
                    } else if (val === 'false') {
                        setElAttr(id, toggleAttrs[i], 'true');
                    }
                }
            }
       }
    </script>
</head>
<body>
      <main class="fd-page">
        <header>
            <div class="fd-container">
               <div class="fd-row">
                <div class="fd-col">
                  <div class="docs-layout-grid-bg docs-layout-grid-bg--color-1">
                    <h3>Example WC Using Luigi Client, Other imported web Components and Sending/Receiving Data</h3>
                  </div>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
        </header>
        

>         <div class="fd-page__content" role="region" style="padding-top:20px;">
>             <div class="fd-container">
>               <div class="fd-row">
>                 <div class="fd-col">
>                       <div>Please Select Alert type</div>
>                       <div style="padding-top:5px;">
>                         <div style="width: 200px;">
>                           <fundamental-list-box id="alertBox" placeholder="Select Alert Type" default_option="" option1="info" option2="success" option3="warning" option4="error" /></div>
>                         </div>
>                       </div>
>                 </div>
>               </div>
>           </div>
>           <br />

Reviewer: Just some indentation
```suggestion
        <div class="fd-page__content" role="region" style="padding-top:20px;">
            <div class="fd-container">
              <div class="fd-row">
                <div class="fd-col">
                      <div>Please Select Alert type</div>
                      <div style="padding-top:5px;">
                        <div style="width: 200px;">
                          <fundamental-list-box id="alertBox" placeholder="Select Alert Type" default_option="" option1="info" option2="success" option3="warning" option4="error" />
                         </div>
                       </div>
                   </div>
                </div>
              </div>
          </div>
          <br />
```

    this.bHideBusy = this.shadowRoot.querySelector('#bHideBusy');
    this.bShowBusy = this.shadowRoot.querySelector('#bShowBusy');
    this.bShowBusy.style.display = 'none';
    this.bHideBusy.addEventListener('click', (event) => {
      this.toggleBusy('busyIndicatorExample', false);
      event.stopPropagation();
    }, false);
    this.bShowBusy.addEventListener('click', (event) => {
      this.toggleBusy('busyIndicatorExample', true);
      event.stopPropagation();
    }, false);
  }

  showAlert(event){
    let alertType = event.detail;
    if (this.LuigiClient) {
      this.LuigiClient.uxManager().showAlert({
        text: 'Hello from uxManager in Web Component',
        type: alertType
      });
    }
    event.stopPropagation();
  }

  toggleBusy(id, show){
    EcEvent.fire(id, show);
    const showButtonStyle = show ? 'none' : 'block';
    const hideButtonStyle = show ? 'block' : 'none';

    this.bShowBusy.style.display = showButtonStyle;
    this.bHideBusy.style.display = hideButtonStyle;
    this.showBusy = show;
  }
}

import './f_selectbox.js';
```

In this file we have the following elements:
- HTML template of the components where we have basically 4 sections

> - An injected <fundamental-list-box web component
> - An injected <f_busy web component
> - An injected <fundamental-input used 4 times
> - We created an example of event handler (file wcEvent.js) that is going to be used for the web components communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An injected `<fundamental-list-box>` web component
- An injected `<f_busy web component>`
- An injected `<fundamental-input>` used 4 times
- We created an example of an event handler (file wcEvent.js) that is going to be used for the web components communication.
```

        optionValue.addEventListener('click', (event) => {
          inputField.value = value;
          optionContainer.setAttribute('aria-hidden','true');
          event.stopPropagation();
          if (id !== undefined && id.trim().length > 0){
            EcEvent.fire(id, value);
          }
        }, false);

      });

      document.addEventListener('click', function(event) {
        optionContainer.setAttribute('aria-hidden','true');
      });

    }

    // fires after the element has been attached to the DOM
    connectedCallback() {
      setTimeout(() => this.container.style.display = "block", 200);
    }

    get placeholder() {
      return this.getAttribute('placeholder') || '';
    }

    get defaultValue() {
      return this.getAttribute('default_option') || '';
    }

    get items() {
      const items = [];
      [...this.attributes].forEach(attr => {
        if (attr.name.startsWith('option')) {
          items.push(attr.value);
        }
      });
      return items;
    }

  }

  customElements.define('fundamental-list-box', F_Selectbox);
})();
```

This Web component is called using this html syntax: 
```javascript

> <fundamental-list-box id="alertBox" placeholder="Select Alert Type" default_option="" option1="info" option2="success" option3="warning" option4="error" /></div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<fundamental-list-box id="alertBox" placeholder="Select Alert Type" default_option="" option1="info" option2="success" option3="warning" option4="error" />
```

     super();
     this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
     this.shadowRoot.appendChild(template.content.cloneNode(true));
     ..........
  }
}
```

```javascript
//This would be the file your_custom_wc.js

(function() {
  class F_Input extends HTMLElement {
    constructor() {
      super();
      this.shadow = this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
      .........
   }
  }
  
  customElements.define('your-web-component', F_Input);

})();
```

## Tip: Example of Luigi Web Component using other standard Web Component and how to communicate with them.

You can have a look at our Luigi Fiddle example where we showcase a Luigi Web Component that is using other custom standard web components and Luigi Client object [here](https://fiddle.luigi-project.io/#/home/wc2)
The following section gives a short description of all the files that are used.

You can see how the different Web Components are injected through the diagrams below:

![Component Injection](assets/component_injections.png)

The Components cannot use (read, write) other Components elements. For this reason, we created a new simple event mechanism example to allow communication between the different components:

> ![Component Events](assets/component_events.png)

Reviewer: Having a random look: I assumed this would not show in [normal GitHub Markdown Viewer](https://github.com/SAP/luigi/blob/59e348fc34394834d8722fe4d6e9cf2e24c2e483/docs/web-component.md). 
But I also can't find these PNG Image files in this PR. Probably wasn't committed, or do we even have special images 🤔  ?

Reviewer: It would be easier probably if it is added as an external link, like in the image of  [Getting Started](https://github.com/ndricimrr/luigi/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md):
`<img src="https://github.com/SAP/luigi/blob/master/docs/assets/luigi-overview-diagram.jpg?raw=true" width="600"/>`
Example:
<img src="https://github.com/SAP/luigi/blob/master/docs/assets/luigi-overview-diagram.jpg?raw=true" width="600"/>

Author: I just added the images....

}, false);
```

Luigi Web Component will receive the event with the input text change and store it into a local variable.
```javascript
EcEvent.register("dialogUrl",  event => this.dialogUrl = event.detail);
EcEvent.register("splitUrl",  event => this.splitUrl = event.detail);
EcEvent.register("drawerUrl",  event => this.drawerUrl = event.detail);
EcEvent.register("navigationUrl",  event => this.navigationUrl = event.detail);
```

### File wcEvent.js
This file is just a js class used to send/recieve messages between the several Web Components:
```javascript
class EventWC {
  constructor() {
    this._bus = document.createElement('div');
    this.eventFunction = {};
  }

  register(eventType, callback) {
    this._bus.addEventListener(eventType, callback);
  }

  remove(eventType, callback) {
    this._bus.removeEventListener(eventType, callback);
  }

  remove(eventType) {
    this._bus.removeEventListener(eventType, () => {});
  }

  fire(eventType, detail = {}) {
    this._bus.dispatchEvent(new CustomEvent(eventType, { detail }));
  }

  removeAllListeners(){
    this._bus = document.createElement('div');
  }

}

var eventWC = new EventWC();
export default eventWC;

```

>  
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: some extra empty lines 
```suggestion
```
